FIKIRTE SAKETA
1.	Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?
My interest in programming has been with me for long time because I always wonder about what happens behind the seen on everything. 
When I was doing my bachelors in Biology the most fascinating classes were those that teaches what happens behind the seen in every 
cell and organs. How do all the cells communicate and do what’s expected of them to make all the animals and plants do what they do 
in everyday life. In science nature is responsible for all behind the seen activities and in this technology oriented world programming 
is the key for all behind the seen questions. As I always wonder of the unseen, programming will answer some of my IT curiosity. I took
a programming class when I was freshman in college. That is when I was exposed the first time. As school goes on I used many technologies
in class and on the researches I was involved and always was curious how? At the end of 2015 I start taking short programming and web 
development courses. These courses and projects help me a lot on learning the subject matter and for see the work environment of my new
career.  

2.	What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?
God willing in the next 2 years I want to establish my new career in information technology. The short term plan to reach my dream is to
attend ADA and build my knowledge in IT, meet new people in the field and get hands on experience. As a new career I expect to face 
challenges, and I believe exposing myself to the challenges will make be knowledgeable and strong. The longer plan will include figuring
out what I like the most in the IT career and to narrow down. This specializing will include going back to school and educating myself as
the technology grows. The end goal in this career is to pair up my science background to the IT world and contribute to both the science
and IT community. 

3.	Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do 
differently?
Mistakes are the best ways to learn. In 2012-13 school year I took a winter quarter off from school and travel to Ethiopia for my
brother’s wedding. It was one of the hardest decisions I made and saw the consequences later in life. At the time I wanted to attend
my brother’s best day and be there for him. Later in school because of that trip I added a year college and graduate late. Beside to
cover my travel expense so worked many hours for a couple quarters before the wedding and some of my grades weren’t as good as they 
supposed to be. However, I didn’t regret at all because I got to see different places and learn some new things about myself. But if
I get the second chance I would have done it differently. If I encounter this situation again, I would give the priority for my school 
and think twice before I made the conclusion. From this experience I learn how to plan accordingly by seeing many scenarios before 
making any decision. 

4.	Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.
I recently taught myself SQL database. I used Microsoft Virtual Academy to listen to the lectures and used their slide in reference 
with a book called SQL in 24 Hours by Ryan Stephens, Ron Plew and Arie D.Jones. I made a schedule to manage my time and used it 
accordingly. The lecture was all new material and the first two weeks were a bit harder than I expected. I watched some of the lectures
twice to make some topics clear and spend most of the time on practicing the demos myself. This helped me the most because hands on 
exercises tend to stick with me more than just listening to the lecture and reading the book. When I face difficulties I ask friends
who have experiences how to approach the challenge in different way and take a day off from solving the problem and come back with a
fresh idea. I am still in the process of learning Database.

